The British war on French trade from the War of Austrian Succession to the fall of Napoleon gives us a lesson on how to win trade wars when outright destruction is not an option. Mercantile rivalry was an important motivation of French wars. The British believed war was a good way to curtail French trade. 
Waging this war on trade was a costly endeavor, especially when compared tho French trade losses. Despite decreases in wartime, French war usually recovered quite fast after each wars. French Revolutionary Wars and Napoleonic Wars were much more decisive in that respect. Computing a loss function for French trade reveals that the peace percentage loss of the Seven Years Wars and that of the Napoleonic Wars, were comparable to wartime loss, as opposed to faster recoveries in other post-war periods. What made these two wars so effective in terms of trade disruption?
Computing the number of warships available to Great Britain and its allies with that available to France and its allies shows that, paradoxically, the most favorable war for France, its allies and neutral countries was the Seven Years War. There is no clear relationship with the French trade loss function and the supremacy of the British navy.
French colonies were a major source of production of colonial goods. Their loss was bound to be disruptive for French trade, as it reduced both imports and re-exports. However, we find that the loss of colonies was not enough to make a successful trade war.
Most of French international trade was conducted by sea. Great Britain could affect sea trade directly. Because direct destruction was rare and ransoming was limited, the overall value of prizes captured by the British navy and privateers provides a good measure of the the pressure war-time predation exerted on trade. Yet, it is not obviously correlated with the loss function.
The role of neutrals during wars, and especially during trade wars, was very important. During Seven Years War, the British introduced the Doctrine of Continuous Voyage along with the Rule of War of 1756, that was a first step against neutral trade in wartime. During the Revolutionary & Napoleonic wars, France itself became more and more hostile to neutral shipping. The fluctuations of the degree of hostility toward neutrals shows a good correlation with the loss function. 
Why was curtailing neutral trade so much more efficient than other tools ? Exploiting new data from the TOFLI18 project we show that, even when controlling for a time trend and the contemporaneous effect of war, the French trade loss function is associated with changes in the industrial and partner structure of trade. The most effective strategy of a trade war was to cause permanent changes in its structure. Harsh treatment of neutral trade (which, when possible, allowed French trade to keep its existing structure) and French cooperation (during the blockade period, the French state actively worked to reorient the geography and structure of its trade) were central in achieving this result.

